pages 4
len 11684
idx 6008
These insights will lead you to the 
innovative solutions.  The best solutions come out of the best insights into human behavior.  But learning to 
recognize those insights is harder than you might think.  Why?  Because our minds automatically ﬁlter out a 
lot of information in ways we aren’t even aware of.  We need to learn to see things “with a fresh set of eyes” 
– tools for empathy, along with a human-centered mindset, is what gives us those new eyes. 
Engaging with people directly reveals a tremendous amount about the way they think and the values they 
hold.  Sometimes these thoughts and values are not obvious to the people who hold them.  A deep 
engagement can surprise both the designer and the designee by the unanticipated insights that are 
revealed.  The stories that people tell and the things that people say they do—even if they are di ﬀerent from 
what they actually do—are strong indicators of their deeply held beliefs about the way the world is.  Good 
designs are built on a solid understanding of these kinds of beliefs and values.  Engage to: 
•!  Uncover needs that people have which they may or may not be aware of 
•!  Guide innovation e ﬀorts 
•!  Identify the right users to design for 
•!  Discover the emotions that guide behaviors 
In addition to speaking with and observing your users, you need to have personal experience in the design 
space yourself.  Find (or create if necessary) experiences to immerse yourself to better understand the 
situation that your users are in, and for which you are designing. 
Empathize 
MODE 
# #) 
::  1  :: 
---PAGE---
The deﬁne mode is when you unpack and synthesize your empathy ﬁndings into compelling needs and 
insights, and scope a speciﬁc and meaningful challenge.  It is a mode of “focus” rather than “ﬂaring.”  T wo 
goals of the deﬁne mode are to develop a deep understanding of your users and the design space and, 
based on that understanding, to come up with an actionable problem statement: your point of view .  Y our 
point of view should be a guiding statement that focuses on speciﬁc users, and insights and needs that you 
uncovered during the empathize mode.   
More than simply deﬁning the problem to work on, your point of view is your unique design vision that you 
crafted based on your discoveries during your empathy work.  Understanding the meaningful challenge to 
address and the insights that you can leverage in your design work is fundamental to creating a successful 
solution. 
The deﬁne mode is critical to the design process because it explicitly expresses the problem you are 
striving to address through your e ﬀorts.  In order to be truly generative, you must ﬁrst craft a speciﬁc and 
compelling problem statement to use as a solution-generation springboard.   
As a test, a good point of view (POV) is one that: 
•! Provides focus and frames the problem 
•! Inspires your team 
•! Provides a reference for evaluating competing ideas 
•! Empowers your team to make decisions independently in parallel 
•! Fuels brainstorms by suggesting “how might we” statements 
•! Captures the hearts and minds of people you meet 
•! Saves you from the impossible task of developing concepts that are all things to all people 
•! Is something you revisit and reformulate as you learn by doing 
•! Guides your innovation e ﬀorts 
 " #   
  
Deﬁne 
MODE 
" #  
::  2  :: 
Ideate is the mode during your design process in which you focus on idea generation.  Mentally it 
represents a process of “going wide” in terms of concepts and outcomes—it is a mode of “ﬂaring” rather than 
“focus.”  The goal of ideation is to explore a wide solution space – both a large quantity of ideas and a 
diversity among those ideas.  From this vast depository of ideas you can build prototypes to test with users. 
Y ou ideate in order to transition from identifying problems into exploring solutions for your users.  Various 
forms of ideation are leveraged to: 
•! Step beyond obvious solutions and thus increase the innovation potential of your solution set 
•! Harness the collective perspectives and strengths of your teams 
•! Uncover unexpected areas of exploration 
•! Create ﬂuency (volume) and ﬂexibility (variety) in your innovation options 
•! Get obvious solutions out of your heads, and drive your team beyond them 
Regardless of what ideation method you use, the fundamental principle of ideation is to be cognizant of 
when you and your team are generating ideas and when you are evaluating ideas – and mix the two only 
intentionally. 
 " # #  
 # 
Ideate 
MODE 
" # # 
::  3  :: 
---PAGE---
T raditionally prototyping is thought of as a way to test functionality.  But prototyping is used for many 
reasons, including these (non-mutually-exclusive) categories: 
•! Empathy gaining: Prototyping is a tool to deepen your understanding of the design space and your user, 
even at a pre-solution phase of your projec
